# Tortilla

A tutorials framework based on git and NodeJS for JavaScript tutorials. This skeleton contains some handy git-helpers which will help us maintain our commits history nice and clean and will make sure that our project is suitable for deployment. If you're not familiar with the basic rules that you should follow when working with Tortilla, be sure to go through the following guidelines.

### Commits

The project should have a very specific form of commits list history. Let's first observe how a valid commits list history should look like and then we will go through it (Tags are preceded by #):

    Step 2: Add todo-list # step2
    Step 2.3: Add todo-list controller
    Step 2.2: Add todo-list view
    Step 2.1: Add todo-list model
    Step 1: Bundling # step1
    Step 1.3: Install the necessary packages for webpack's build
    Step 1.2: Add webpack build to gulp tasks
    Step 1.1: Create a basic webpack config
    Create a new tortilla project # root

As you can see, each commit should present a single step in the tutorial, it means that its message should have the following template:

    Step (step index): (step description)

Some of the commits represent a [sub-step](#sub-step) (e.g. step 1.1, 1.2 etc) and some of the represent a [super-step](#super-step) (e.g. step 1, 2 etc), together they form a whole step. Note that the only exception is the initial commit whose message can be whatever you'd like, the rest of the commits **must** follow these rules, otherwise you will encounter some unexpected behaviors.

#### Sub Step

A sub-step is a small portion of the whole step, each sub-step should usually represent a small change which should be followed by an explanation in the tutorial. Sub-steps should be sorted by their chronological order, sub-steps which assemble the same step should have the same super index, and an consecutive sub index separated by a period (e.g. 1.1, 1.2 etc).

#### Super Step

A super-step should **always** come at the end of each step, it should contain a single index and it should be tagged by its step name (e.g. super-step 1 should be tagged "step1", super-step 2 should be tagged "step2" etc). The super-step should add a manual file on how to create the current step. The manual file is a simple markdown file which should be located under the `steps` directory and its name should be `step(index).md`. For more information about manual files, see the [manuals](#manuals) section.

### Manuals

A manual is a simple markdown file which contain some instructions about a specific step. The only exception is the first manual which should give us an introduction to the tutorial and is written in the `README.md` file. The rest of the manuals should be located in the `steps` dir in a file called `step(index).md` (`index` represents the index of the step). The manual files are auto-generated by Tortilla and they come in two formats - a [production](#production-manual) format and a [development](#development-format) format. To switch between the two, use the [manuals conversion command](#convert-manual).

#### Production Manual

A manual in a production format is a manual which is suitable for deployment. Once we convert a manual into this format some content should be auto-generated, like a navigation bar between the manuals which will be located at the bottom of each manual, and rendered template-helpers. A manual file should **always** be pushed to the git-host in production format, otherwise it won't look and behave as we expect it to!

#### Development Manual

A manual file in a development format is a manual which is suitable for development. Once we convert a manual into this format, we should get a clean and a user-friendly version of it. Auto-generated content would not be shown, and complex markdown components would appear as template-helpers. Right now the only available template helper would `{{{diff_step (index)}}}`, it shares the same syntax as [handlebar's](handlebarsjs.com) and it will show us the changes of the specified step in a pretty markdown layout (`index` represents the index of the step). It is recommended to only work in development format, otherwise you gonna have a very rough time, so make sure to [convert](#convert-manual) the manuals whenever you clone a Tortilla project.

### How Do I Start

First you will need to install Tortilla's CLI tool:

    $ sudo npm install tortilla -g

Once you have it installed you can go ahead and create a new Tortilla project:

    $ tortilla create "project name" --message="commit message" --output="output path"

This command will initialize a new Tortilla project in the provided path (Defaults to the current path). The project will be initialized with the provided project name (Defaults to `tortilla-project`) and the provided message as the initial commit message (Will open an editor if no message is provided). If the output path already exists a prompt verifying your decision will show up. To automatically skip it you can provide an optional `--override` option.

Anytime you clone a Tortilla project from a git-host you will need to re-initialize it so Tortilla can work properly:

    $ tortilla init "project path"

An optional project path can be provided when initializing Tortilla (Defaults to current dir). As for now this command has no restrictions and can be used on any project, but is not guaranteed to work as expected, so use with caution.

A manual page for the usage of Tortilla's CLI tool can be brought any time by typing the following:

    $ tortilla --help

### Git Helpers

You've probably noticed that the rules for a valid tutorial project are very strict. This is where the git-helpers kicks in. Instead of having a rough time managing the steps list, here are some kick-ass helpers which will make your life way easier:

#### Push Step

    $ tortilla step push --message="step message"

Push a new step to the top of the stack with the provided message (Will open an editor if no message is provided). If you would like to add a new step in the middle of the stack, first use the [step editing](#edit-step) helper, and then push a new step to the top of the stack.

#### Pop Step

    $ tortilla step pop

Pop the last step from the top of the stack. If you would like to remove a step from the middle of the stack, first use the [step editing](#edit-step) helper, and then pop the step from the top of the stack.

#### Tag Step

    $ tortilla step tag --message="step message"

Add a new super-step and finish the current step with the provided message (Will open an editor if no message is provided). This will add a new step tag to your commits list and it will initialize an empty manual markdown file. If you would like to edit the manual file, simply use the [step editing](#edit-step) helper and amend your changes to the recent commit.

#### Edit Step

    $ tortilla step edit "step index"

Edit the provided step. This will get you into rebase mode, so once you've finished editing your step, just type `git rebase --continue` and let git do its magic. You can add, remove and tag new steps during editing without worrying about the upcoming commits, this helper is smart enough to adjust their content and messages based on your actions. An optional `--root` option can be provided if you would like to edit the root.

#### Reword Step

    $ tortilla step reword "step index" --message="step message"

Replace the provided step's message with the provided message (Will open an editor if no message is provided). An optional `--root` option can be provided if you would like to reword the root.

#### Convert Manual

    $ tortilla manual convert "step index"

Converts and rebases specified step's manual into its opposite format. If you would like to convert the root manual you can provide a `--root`. If you would like to convert all manuals since the beginning of history you can provide a `--all` option. If no step is specified, the last manual will be converted by default.